add rocgdb how-to (#3097)
ROCm/ROCm: docs/how-to/rocgdb.rst

Reviewer: Maybe provide a link to the ROCgdb repo? 
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/ROCgdb/en/latest/index.html

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes the usage of ROCgdb, a tool for debugging
  ROCm software.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, ROCgdb, performance, debugging

*******************************************************************************

> ROCgdb

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ROCgdb debugger for Linux targets
```

*******************************************************************************

.. _rocgdb_introduction:
Introduction
===============================================================================

> This document introduces ROCgdb, the AMD ROCm debugger for Linux targets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ROCgdb is the AMD ROCm debugger for Linux targets.
```

ROCgdb is an extension to GDB, the GNU Project debugger. The tool provides developers

> with a mechanism for debugging CUDA applications running on actual hardware. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with a mechanism for debugging CUDA applications running on actual hardware. This tool
```

enables developers to debug applications without the potential variations introduced

> by simulation and emulation environments. It is meant to present a seamless debugging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by simulation and emulation environments. It presents a seamless debugging
```

> environment that allows simultaneous debugging of both GPU and CPU code within the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
environment that allows simultaneous GPU and CPU code debugging within the
```

> same application, just like programming in HIP is a seamless extension of C++

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
same application, just like programming in HIP, which is a seamless extension of C++
```

programming. The existing GDB debugging features are inherently present for debugging
the host code, and additional features have been provided to support debugging ROCm
device code.

> ROCgdb supports HIP kernel debugging. It allows the user to set breakpoints, to 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this instead:
It allows you to set breakpoints, single-step ROCm applications, and inspect and modify the memory and variables of any given thread running on the hardware.

single-step ROCm applications, and also to inspect and modify the memory and variables
of any given thread running on the hardware.

.. _rocgdb_installation:
Installation
===============================================================================
The ROCm installation also installs the ROCgdb debugger, but some steps are necessary
before using the debugger.

.. _rocgdb_setup:
Setup
===============================================================================

> Before debugging you have to compile your software with debug information. To do this

Reviewer 2: Consider this paragraph instead:
Before debugging, compile your software with debug information. Add the ‘-g’ flag to your compilation command to do this. This generates debug information even when optimizations are turned on. Notice that higher optimization levels make the debugging more difficult, so it might be helpful to turn off these optimizations using the ‘-O0’ compiler option.

you have to add the '-g' flag for your compilation command. This will generate debug
information even when optimizations are turned on. Notice that higher optimization
levels make the debugging more difficult, so it might be useful to turn off these
optimizations by using the '-O0' compiler option.

.. _rocgdb_debugging:
Debugging
===============================================================================

> This section is a brief introduction on how to use ROCgdb. For a more information on the

Reviewer 2: Perhaps:
This section introduces how to use ROCgdb. For more information about GDB, see the **GDB documentation**. 

Add a link for the bold.

functionality of gdb look up the gdb documentation.

First step is to run ROCgdb with your ROCm application:

``rocgdb my_application``

At this point the application is not running, but you'll have access to the debugger
console. Here you can use every gdb option for host debugging and you can use them and
extra ROCgdb specific features for device debugging.

> Before you run your application with the debugger, you'll need to set a breakpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll need to set a breakpoint before you run your application with the debugger.
```

``tbreak my_app.cpp:458``

This will place a breakpoint at the specified line. To start your application use this
command:

``run``

> If the breakpoint is in device code the debugger will show the device and host threads as

Reviewer 2: Perhaps:
If the breakpoint is in the device code, the debugger will also show the device and host threads. The device threads will not be individual threads; instead, they represent a wavefront on the device. You can switch between the device wavefronts as you would between host threads.

By the way, is it "wavefront" or "warp"?

Author: As far as I know they are the same thing, but warp is the word nvidia uses for cuda, and wavefront is used for opencl and by amd for its hardware

well. The device threads will not be individual threads, instead they represent a
wavefront on the device. You can switch between the device wavefronts, like you would
between host threads.

You can also switch between layouts. Use different layouts for different situations while
debugging.

``layout src``

``layout asm``

The `src` layout is the source code view, while the `asm` is the assembly view. There are

> further layouts you can look up on the gdb documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
further layouts you can look up in the GBD documentation.  (Make this a link)
```

``info threads``

This command lists all threads with id and information on where the thread is stopped.

To switch threads you can use the following command:

``thread <id>``

To take a step in the execution use:

``n``

To dump the content of the current wavefronts registers use:

``i r``

> For further information on the usage of gdb, you can go to the `gdb documentation

Reviewer 2: This feels like it's been discussed multiple times. 
Not sure needed again here. Perhaps it doesn't hurt.

Author: I added some text about the command above it. Just ending on a command felt weird.
